Yes, there were.
There were drownouts. We'd take people into the
quadrangle, and we'd get as much water as we could,
and we'd dump water and mud on them. Do you remember
what it was like going to your first football
games? I sure do. Describe that.
When you're a poor boy from the radar like me and you
go to a field like Kyle Field and you sit with the
entire Corps of Cadets and you cheer on a team that
wasn't producing a very good record in 1965, it's
still exciting to go to the game and to see that many
people. I mean, there were as many people in that
football stadium, as it were, the entire city of
Laredo, and that was sort of an amazing statistic
for me. And your yell practice in those days, was it
in the stadium? No, the yell practice in those days
was in the stadium. And was it already at midnight?
See, earlier they'd had them at... We used to have
them, it was not at midnight, it was like at 11
o'clock at night. Okay, but it was 11. But we still
called it midnight yell practice, but by the time
it was over, it would be close to midnight. And what
would a fish wear to midnight yell practice? Did
you wear a uniform?
Haskell, I don't remember whether we wore
uniforms. Did you all ever do any pranks? No, we
would. We would wear... We would wear our uniform
pants, make sure our belt buckle was polished, and
we'd polish our shoes, and we'd wear a t-shirt to
midnight yell practice. But we, one, I used to hate
midnight yell practice because it would
completely destroy your shoes. And it was, to me,
it was a form of hazing because the shoes that you
wanted to always keep, we'd wear boots to midnight
yell practice. And you had to go to class the next
day. We'd have to go to class. No, normally we'd go
to midnight yell practice on a Friday. And so on
Saturday, if you went to class on Saturday, you had
to polish those shoes or boots again because they
would get completely destroyed and scuffled up
because of the parading that went on before
midnight yell practice. And anything that you
learned early about what a fish is supposed to do at
the game? Of course, we learned that all. during
the, what I would say, educational sessions that
we'd have every day before every meal or every
evening before we went to shower after we had study
period. We'd have the upperclassmen, in essence.
As a beginning freshman, how did you communicate
back with your family about what was happening and
how you were doing? Through letters, which are
still in A briefcase that I have in my attic right
now. Oh, all right. Then let me preach you a plea, a
sermon. If you ever, ever, ever are willing to part
with those, send them to the A&M Archives so
they'll be there forever. You ought to make Xerox
copies for your children so that... All the
letters that I wrote to my parents when I was in
Vietnam are Oh, those too. Yes, yes. And about how
often did you write to your parents your freshman
year? I'd say about every week to two weeks. And did
you get letters back? Yes, but not as long as mine
were. If we were to summarize what your first
letters said, what do you think that... I think the
summary would be, life is not easy here. It
is not... It is not always fun.
I love my freshman class. I love my peers. They're
my brothers. We're all having a hard time, and keep
us in your prayers. They were not mournful. They
were not sorrowful letters, but they were letters
that indicated that things were not as... easy as
they as I thought they might have been. Did you ever
think about dropping out? Oh of course, but I
never. Why didn't you? Tried and I knew that I could
make it. I knew that I could make it. When you got
when you got your first grades, how were those your
freshman year? At that point we were on a
three-point grade point average and I had a a 2.5,
which is pretty good. So I'd be a 3.5 today. Right,
and I never went below a 2.25 my first two years. As I
advanced in the Corps of Cadets in leadership, I
began majoring more in Corps of Cadets than I was
majoring in math and minoring in Russian, so my
grades started suffering my junior and senior
years. But I never went below a 2 point. the which
would be a three-point today right and when when
did you first go home the first the first time I went
home was was after Thanksgiving for a couple of
days and the second time I went home was Christmas
and then there was maybe one of the time I I wouldn't
come home but maybe three times no more than four
times per year any year that I was at A&M My parents
would come up once a year for Parents' Day. And do
you remember making a court trip that fall? Yes, I
do. Where? We went to Fort Worth. What was it like?
Well, it was wonderful, and the key dilemma for us
was we couldn't afford a room, so 15 of us would
share one room, and it was not fun. A hotel room? A
hotel room. And we, you know, trying to find a place
to sleep and then that was okay. It's getting ready
in the morning and not having enough. We'd have to
get up three hours before we were supposed to get
just so we could. How did you get to Fort Worth? We
caravaned with those freshmen that had cars, and
we went together in groups. As freshmen in the
outfit, we'd get four or five cars and we'd go down
there. And did you have a date up there? Yes, I did.
Where did you get one? It was always a blind date
from Texas Women's University in Denton.
But yeah, I never knew. Did you write a letter or did
somebody arrange it? It was always arranged. And a
lot of times it was the upperclassmen that would
arrange the dates for the freshmen. And as you
think about it now, how were those young ladies
treated by the Aggies? Oh, some were treated... I
mean, Aggies were never rude to the ladies, but
sometimes,
you know, the worst thing that I would hear was that
they weren't the most beautiful. Because we
weren't, you know, you didn't pick them. Somebody
else would pick them. But they were always, you
know, glad to be with an Aggie. Some Aggies are
crude, but most are gentlemen. Most are
gentlemen. All right. How did you meet them
physically? Where did you? We would meet at the
hotel room where we were staying, and somehow
there would be an arrangement. So they'd get down
from Denton down to Fort Worth. That's correct. We
wouldn't go pick them up. And normally did they
watch the march? Yes, they did. And then go to the
game. That's correct. Then was there an
after-the-game event? There was normally a dance
after the game. At that time, things were a lot more
organized. You did things in groups. It was not
done like Hector and Sally are going to go here and
Frank and Betty are going to go there. Everything
was arranged. Again, my recollection was that
upperclassmen in my outfit and in other outfits
would help arrange some of these things. The,
these ladies, you had a dance on Saturday night.
Did you all have a moose pot, beast bucket?
Haskell, you've obviously been talking to other
folks, but yes, we would have a moose pot and, you
know, the ugliest girl would, you know. How much
money would you put into the pot? Seventy-five
cents to a dollar. Okay. No more than that. But yes,
we would definitely try to pick the grossest girl.
And the grossest girl was never really the ugliest
girl. It was usually the fattest girl. Were you all
aware that they had a pot quite often also? No, I was
not aware of that. As to which guy was the dullest,
the dreariest? Do you remember anything on any
court trip you went on, do you remember hearing
about anything that really was bad that happened?
No. All right, of your four years, which were the
best for you, which were the most enjoyable Corps
trips? To which place? The most enjoyable Corps
trip I ever made was coming to Austin, Texas, and
there's nothing, when I was a senior, and I
happened to be the Corps commander, marching up
Congress Avenue towards the Capitol, leading the
Corps of Cadets, having my mother and father
invited to the reviewing stand and seeing their
eyes as her son passed by. That's something, yeah.
And my mother, Haskell, wanted to look the
prettiest she could ever look and she happened to
have, she bought a dress and it was orange and I was
so embarrassed. that my mother wore this
beautiful orange dress. My father was in a suit. I
can't believe they were wearing suits and nice
dresses to a football game, but people dressed up
more back then. But, you know, having my brothers
and sisters there with me and them not
understanding what the Corps of Cadets was, but
then seeing the entire Corps march up Congress
Avenue with the Aggie Band, it was something else.
Oh, that's so special. Another highlight for me
was It wasn't a court trip, but it was, you know, at a
gubernatorial inauguration, but for the Ross
Volunteers to be the honor guard for Governor
Preston Smith. Oh, Preston Smith. And I remember
coming to that. When, on the senior court trip, who
else would have been, what other dignitaries
would have been on the viewing stand? Were there
some state officials?
People from the Former Students Association, of
course, all the,
we called it the trigon, all the trigon brass was
there. They'd always have former
students who were generals on the reviewing
stand. It was more military-based, and they'd
have politicians on it, but at that point, I didn't
know the difference between a state
representative and a governor. All right, where
did you all form down near the bridge? It was
always, it was, I mean, I remember exactly, it was
in front of the Stephen F. Austin Hotel. Oh, okay.
And it's just been renovated, and it was, that's
exactly where the reviewing stand was. And you
marched north to the Capitol? We would assemble
around 1st or 2nd Street, and we would march north.
to the Capitol, take a right on 11th Street. The
band was always at 11th and Congress towards the
left in front of the mansion. I can remember every
detail about that. Do you remember on any court
trip the crowd of observers ever being rude or
crude to the... I can't remember that, but I do
remember the
crudeness of fans at Rice and crudeness of fans at
University of Texas. During the game? During the
game and after the game when we would lose because
we weren't winning many games and the poor Aggies
was something that That's the only time that I saw
the corps act in a less than professional manner
because the taunting was such that some of the
Aggies who were very proud of the fact that we wore
the uniform and that we felt like we should be
treated better as guests, but the poor Aggie
taunting would create the chant of corps fight and
corps fight meant you did anything you could to
defend yourself, and you were always outnumbered
when a court fight was yelled. All right, so you go
home at Thanksgiving and Christmas your freshman
year. How were you feeling about A&M by then?
Obviously, was proud have gone there but it was
always more comfortable being at home the food was
much better the love was greater and the comfort
was certainly more accommodating so whenever I
went back my stomach would turn and I used to tell my
mother and father an hour before I would be picked
up please leave me alone in the living room Because
to this day, I hate goodbyes from people I love,
especially when I'm going to be far away from them.
And A&M seemed like it was extremely far from
Laredo. In those days, you couldn't drive more
than 50 miles an hour, 55 miles an hour. And so it
would take a good six, seven hours to get home. And I
can remember driving back, I really wouldn't feel
terribly bad or have a tummy ache until I got beyond
the pass drop. And then when I could see the Brazos
River, I could see the lights of Bryan College
Station, and certainly when I could see the lights
of the football field, you would begin, your
stomach would begin to turn and your heart would
begin to thump hard. because you were always, you
always knew that you couldn't be totally prepared
for what they had in store for you. All right, as
your freshman year ends, you go for the first time
through final review. On the second march, second
part, when you are now, have moved up, how did you
feel about being ready to be a sophomore? It's all
been worth it, and it sure took a long time to get
here. Then you go home that summer. What did you do?
That summer I went home and I worked at Sears to earn
some extra money and worked in the supply
department at Sears. And I worked at Sears every
summer, my freshman, sophomore, and junior. What
kind of pay? Do you remember? I
don't remember the hourly. It was a minimum wage,
plus maybe a dollar more above the minimum wage.
And was that extra? That was a lot of money back
then. Was that extra spending money in addition to
what your parents? Yes, it was extra spending
money. All right, and so you head back at the end of
that summer as a sophomore. Did you begin to feel
you were making progress in the Corps and in your
academics? I did. I did. I was a, you know,
best-drilled freshman, and I began to be very
active in some student affairs at the Memorial
Student Center, which was... Why? How did that
come about? I wanted something beyond the core. I
didn't want all of my experience to be core. Now,
that was a little bit controversial because The
Memorial Student Center was known as the place
where civilians also hung out, and it was the place
where
things other than military occurred, and
therefore, if you were over there, you might be
unduly influenced by subversives, or by
liberals, or by people that didn't think the way we
did, and I Again, that course in great books and
that exposure to those kind of people said to me, I
don't care what people think, you know, I'm going
to do what I think I need to do. So I've always had a
little bit of rebel in me, and I didn't realize that
I had rebel in me at that point. I do now, but that was
the rebel in me coming out. Did anybody, as you
think back, did anybody encourage you to do MSC?
things?
There were some people that I looked up to that were
involved in town hall, especially, because I like
students.
I can remember, I can't remember all the names of
the folks, but I can remember people that seemed to
be leaders in the Corps, I'm talking about juniors
and seniors, seemed to be people that also did
things outside the Corps, and where I would see
them was at town hall activities, because they had
a special ribbon, or they, there was something
that they wore, oh, it was the, they had an ascot
that was a different color, it was a maroon ascot,
and I thought the maroon ascot was neat, and I
wanted to wear one one of those days. When did you
meet that fellow named J. Wayne Stark? Do you
remember? I met J. Wayne Stark my sophomore year,
and the person that I got really close to, in
addition to Wayne being like a father to me, was
Ruth Hewitt, and her she and her husband were like
second parents to me. So I still remember their
address. It's 1509 Bennett and Ruth still lives in
that house. Now she was on William's staff? She was
the secretary. That's what I thought. And so I'd go
to their home on weekends just to get away from the
Corps and have that special food and that extra
comfort I talked about. And so I became part of that
family, and she adopted me as like one of her sons.
And I began dealing with Wayne as a sophomore.
During your years, did you run into any famous
students, students whose parents were rich or
potent politicians, or were there celebrity
students at any? I met,
Fort Albritton Jr. was one of my classmates, and I
knew that he was wealthy, and I knew that his father
was active,
but I don't know whether he was famous or not, but
you know, Mike Casey was one of my
classmates in Hellcat 9, and his father was a
congressman. So there was some fame there. But how
were the children of prominent people, how were
they treated at A&M compared to everybody else? To
my knowledge, no different. I mean, there weren't
any, sure, there weren't any special favors, and
you didn't know who was rich or who was poor. Um,
nobody knew whether I was from Welth or not, um,
until they went, until they came to my home and they
saw that, that we had only a two-bedroom house that
were five children. And, you know, maybe they came
from a home that had a house, I mean, a bedroom for
every child. And my house, five of us slept in one
room. Were there any giveaway, uh, courses,
courses that people took when they knew their...
Haskell, no, there... Were there any special
courses for the athletes?
They had special tutoring, but they didn't have
any special, they didn't have courses just for
them, but they did have tutors that we didn't have.
As far as I know, you're correct. And
as you're feeling, as you're in your sophomore
year, you're getting deeper and immersed in all of
the activities. When did you begin to dream about
maybe being high-ranking in the Corps. When did
you begin to dream of that? I really didn't think
that I could achieve that until I was, you know, a
junior, and I'd been selected for Corps staff.
Very competitive. That's the toughest interview
I've ever been through. Now that came during
your... That came during my sophomore year. There
were six of us picked to be on core staff. Do you have
any idea what the basis of the selection of those
six was? Yes, I do. I think one of the primary basis
for selection was composure. Imagine yourself in
a conference room with
six to ten upperclassmen,
and they're all asking you questions at one time,
and you know that there are 30 to 40 people
competing, and how I was selected to even be
allowed to go into that room and compete with those
30 or 40. I don't know how that occurred, but there
had to have been some kind of process that the
upperclassmen used to say, well, from this outfit
or from this wing, we're going to send X amount of
people to compete. Because I certainly didn't
have any buddies that were on Corps staff or any
ends or any special access. And you were not an
affirmative action... I don't
believe I was. I might have been, but I don't think.
I mean, I just, I've never felt. I mean, anything
I've ever done, I believe I've gotten done because
of some quality that I apparently bring. I think
the main thing that got me through that interview
was my composure and my self-confidence. And
these are students doing the interview? All
students. As you think back about the questions,
were they appropriate questions?
They weren't. All the questions were either
dealing with current events, Corps Cadets
matters, or, you know, how quickly you could think
on your feet. They weren't. These are juniors and
seniors. these were most all these were all the
people that were asking me the questions were
primarily yeah they were juniors and seniors
because they were juniors encore staff and
seniors encore staff all right how did you learn
that you had been selected after the interview how
many were you the only one or was it six there were
six of us on core staff how did you six learn that you
had been selected I don't remember the exact
details, but I just know that word came down from my
company commander, and I found out through my
outfit that I'd been selected, and it was... What
did your outfit do? Did they have any special
ceremony for you? There was no special ceremony. I
had, in essence, become a staff rat, and I was
leaving the ordinary group. the ordinary group of
people, and I say ordinary, I was leaving my outfit
and going to something else, and therefore I was
treated as if, yes, I was getting a special
privilege, and I think they were proud, but I was
also being given a different class status, and
there was some resentment. You were kind of a
deserter? Yes, I was seen not as a deserter, but
that I was becoming a staff rat, and staff rats were
people that enforced the rules, that made sure
that things did not get out of hand, that were seen
as the elite of the Corps, and
some of the people that used to be my peers began to
see me as a little bit elevated and therefore there
was resentment and that's the first time you begin
to see, you really begin to see differences in
people when you begin to be junior and senior
because the rank differences are so varied. When
you're a freshman there are no differences and
when you're a sophomore there's only two ranks.
Once you become a junior the the breadth of rank
structure is greater and when you become a senior
it's even it's even greater than that so you think
this is the spring of your sophomore year which
would have been 60 66 spring of 66 and uh spring of 67
67 67 And do you move, you don't physically
relocate your dorm room until the fall? Until the
fall. You're still in, and they didn't do anything
to your room or? No. Didn't drown you out? No, no,
no, no, no, no. No, there wasn't any, and you know, I
can remember Frank Davis, who was my roommate at
that point, was also sent to staff, to wing staff,
and so You know, it turned out that the two of us that
were rooming together, I go to Corps Staff, the
other one went to Wing Staff. How did you inform
your mom and dad about that? Did you write them a
letter or call them? I wrote them a letter, or I
think I maybe called them on the phone. Now, you
didn't have a steady girlfriend at that time? At
that time, I did not have a steady girlfriend. I
think I got a steady girlfriend my... So there was
nobody else to... No, I got the steady girlfriend.
My junior and senior year, I had a girlfriend by the
name of Melita Ruiz, R-U-I-Z. It was a blonde,
blue-eyed girl from Laredo. All right, so you go
home that summer, work again at Sears, then come
back in the fall. Describe the routine for a new
staff. Corps staff. Corps staff. You have a
cookie. Let me take a break real quick. The new
routine for a young junior staff officer? The new
routine was a responsibility. I was supply
sergeant. I had to make sure that every outfit had
the proper supplies and that the every outfit
needed certain
You know, they had certain needs, like rifles in
the Army, and where they cleaned, did they have the
oil to clean them? So my job was supply sergeant,
and there were only six of us on Corps staff. And
that's for the whole Corps? For the entire Corps of
Cadets. So I had responsibilities for the entire
Corps, and obviously Corps staff, leads, the
Corps cadets in all marches. They lead the Corps
cadets on Corps trips. They lead the Corps cadets
in all football games. And so there was some
stature associated with being on Corps staff.
Now, the Corps commander my junior year was an Air
Force officer, or an Air Force, Lonnie Minz was his
name, M-I-N-Z-E.
And during those days, the Corps commanders
position alternated between Air Force and Army.
It was that way always. And so I knew when I was a
junior that there was no way that I could be Corps
Commander because I was in the Air Force. So did I
desire the top spot? Yes. Did I think it was even
possible to achieve? Probably not. five foot six.
Most Corps commanders were six foot tall with
blonde hair and blue eyes, and they didn't have the
last name Gutierrez, so I had some odds stacked
against me, but
I guess what sort of compelled me my junior year to
be the very best that I could be was that I like to
compete and, you know, compete in a way that isn't
too, too obvious so that you can have the respect of
your peers, which is very important in achieving
any kind of success at A&M, is if you don't have the
respect of your own peers, you don't get anything
done. So you have to compete, yet not come across to
your peers as being too...